Many people who edit Wikipedia do so because they enjoy writing. However, that passion for writing can influence what they write to be longer than necessary. Sometimes, this is because the writer incorrectly believes that long sentences and big words will make them appear learned.[3] In other cases, misplaced pride prevents the author from seeing that not every word in their golden prose is necessary. Perhaps the author may be too hurried (or lazy) to write clearly and concisely; recall Pascal's famous quote, "I made this so long because I did not have time to make it shorter." While a genius like Pascal may have been justified in that balancing of priorities (just as neurosurgeons may not spend time doing the hospital landscaping), the rest of us must do our share of the work. In a related vein, administrator candidates may be judged merely by how much they have written, versus the much more subjective value of their contributions.
Due to these factors, many articles, instructions and especially comments on Wikipedia are longer than necessary. Some of Wikipedia's core policies are considered by some to be too long (e.g. Creative Commons license). This may be considered to put too much burden on the readers to understand. Such a problem can be seen in other applications as well.[4]
Writers often begin a project by writing long-winded drafts. As they go through the iterative process of revising their work, they (should) come to a better understanding of what they're trying to communicate, and be able reduce the length of the work. If this process is stopped prematurely, the result is needlessly long (to which Pascal's earlier quote refers). Writers may err towards wordiness out of concern that short prose which is not carefully edited (at high time cost) would oversimplify, to the point of distorting or omitting, or carry a higher risk of being misunderstood.
Albert Einstein described the work of theorists as making theory as simple as possible, without failing to explain all empirical cases. This is often paraphrased as "everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler." Much argument between individuals results from one trying to point out the ways in which another's model of reality is incomplete. Thus the concept that Einstein mentioned often spurs lengthy exposition, often to account for the corner cases.
A venerable aphorism is that "brevity is the soul of wit."[5] A similar sentiment advises would-be skilled writers to "omit needless words."[6] Editors are encouraged to write concisely, and avoid undue technical jargon. If it becomes necessary to write lengthy text in an article, editors may wish to include a short summary. Additionally, it may be appropriate to use simple vocabulary to aid the readers in comprehension. Many readers may not use English as a primary language, or may have other "unarticulated needs".[7]
Needless length may be interpreted as a mark of arrogance. The message to the reader seems to be, "My time is more valuable than yours. I can't be bothered to express myself clearly and concisely, so I'm shifting the burden to you to sift my words." Some people are constitutionally more loquacious than others, and thus may not be arrogant so much as miscalibrated. Still, the loquacious must force themselves to see things through the eyes of readers, and push beyond their own comfort level ? what they themselves think is already clear ? to arrive at greater clarity. Taking the time to distill your thoughts not only helps you communicate more effectively, but also builds rapport with your readers.
The phrase wall of text is frequently used to describe overlong, unformatted contributions.